# 2. Conda

#### 2.1 Introduction

**Conda** is an open source package management system and environment management system for installing multiple versions of software packages and their dependencies and switching easily between them. It works on Linux, OS X and Windows, and was created for Python programs but can package and distribute any software. 

Conda allows users to create separate **environments** containing files, packages, and their dependencies that will not interact with other environments. When users begin using Conda, they already have a default environment named base. Users put programs into separate environments rather than their base environment.

#### 2.2 Installation

**Step 1.** Run`conda install -c anaconda conda`in XShell/Terminal/FinalShell To install this package.

**Step 2.** Run`conda info` to verify if Conda is successfully installed.

**Step 3.** Run`conda update conda` to update Conda to the current version.

#### 2.3 Environment

**Step 1.** Run`conda info -e` to know the current Conda environment.

e.g., on my laptop, there are two Conda environments, "base" is a default environment, "vs2" is created for VirSorter2.

```text
(base) [nanzhen@admin ~]$ conda info -e
>>> # conda environments:
>>>                          /beegfs/home/nanzhen/VirSorter2/db/conda_envs/1dbde381
>>> base                  *  /beegfs/home/nanzhen/miniconda3
>>> vs2                      /beegfs/home/nanzhen/miniconda3/envs/vs2
```

**Step 2.** Run`source activate <env_name>` to enter a specific environment, run`conda deactivate` to quit the current Conda environment.

```text
(base) [nanzhen@admin ~]$ conda info -e
>>> # conda environments:
>>> #
>>>                          /beegfs/home/nanzhen/VirSorter2/db/conda_envs/1dbde381
>>> base                  *  /beegfs/home/nanzhen/miniconda3
>>> vs2                      /beegfs/home/nanzhen/miniconda3/envs/vs2

(base) [nanzhen@admin ~]$ source activate vs2
>>> (vs2) [nanzhen@admin ~]$ 
(vs2) [nanzhen@admin ~]$ conda deactivate
>>> (base) [nanzhen@admin ~]$ 
```

{% hint style="info" %}
For bioinformatics tools that you want to install, please remember to search it on [https://anaconda.org/](https://anaconda.org/) first, then install them in Conda environment.
{% endhint %}

#### 2.4 Conda cheatsheet

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/conda-cheatsheet.pdf" caption="conda\_cheatsheet" %}

#### 2.5 References

* https://anaconda.org/
* http://hpc.pku.edu.cn/\_book/guide/soft\_env/conda.html



