---
description: >-
  Before you start this page, please confirm which or whether Workload Manager
  for the lab server is used at UA. Slurm is used in BMB lab 610 at HZAU.
---

# 4. Slurm

#### 4.1 Introduction

**Slurm** \(Simple Linux Utility Resource Management\) ****is an open source, fault-tolerant, and highly scalable cluster management and job scheduling system for large and small Linux clusters.

**Partitions** are logical collections of nodes that comprise different hardware resources and limits to help meet the wide variety of jobs that get scheduled on Discovery. Occasionally, the Research Computing team might need to make updates to the partitions based on monitoring job submissions to help reduce job wait times.

The`sbatch` **command** is a bash script used to specify the resources you need to run your jobs, such as the number of nodes you want to run your job. Then, Slurm schedules your job based on the availability of the resources you’ve specified.

#### 4.2 SBATCH example

* **Step 1 Learn the following indispensable commands for submitting jobs line by line.**

```text
#!/bin/sh
```

`/sh`, equal to `/bash`, ~~move to a compute node after your first log in.~~ \(to be corrected\)

```text
#SBATCH -J nanzhen_virsorter2
```

`-J`, equal to `--job-name`. In this example, a job named nanzhen\_virsorter2 is chosen.

```text
#SBATCH -c 30
```

`-c`, ~~equal to`--nodes`, count nodes requested. In this example, 30 nodes are chosen.~~ 是核心，nodes是N，通常都是一个nodes

```text
#SBATCH -p normal
```

`-p`, equal to`--partition`. In this example, the chosen &lt;partition name&gt; is normal.

To know all partition names in the lab server, run`sinfo`.

To know the state of the nodes on a specific partition, run`sinfo -p <paritition name>`command.

To know the jobs that have been run on a specific partition, run `sinfo --partition <partition name>`command.

* **Step 2 Submit a job to Slurm.**

```

```



**TO BE CONTINUED**

{% page-ref page="../nanzhen\_oct/vim.md" %}

{% page-ref page="../nanzhen\_oct/shell-jiao-ben.md" %}





#### 4.4 Learning resources

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/slurm\_cheetsheet.pdf" caption="Slurm\_cheetsheet" %}

#### 4.5 References

* https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html
* https://rc-docs.northeastern.edu/en/latest/hardware/partitions.html\#viewing-partition-information
* https://www.cuhk.edu.hk/itsc/hpc/slurm.html



